Add MUI best practices, explain benefits of using MUI more (#158)
docker/extensions-sdk: docs/design/ui-kit.md

---
title: Docker UI Kit
description: Docker extension design
keywords: Docker, extensions, design
---

# Docker UI Kit

Our Design System is a constantly evolving set of specifications that aim to ensure visual consistency across Docker products, and meet [level AA accessibility standards](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG2AA-Conformance). We've opened parts of it to extension authors, documenting basic styles (color, typography) and components. See: [Docker Extensions Styleguide](https://www.figma.com/file/U7pLWfEf6IQKUHLhdateBI/Docker-Design-Guidelines?node-id=1%3A28771).

> We require extensions to match the wider Docker Desktop UI to a certain degree, and reserve the right to make this stricter in the future.

Author: Bit of a hard take, but I think it's better for them to be told here than at quality-control review. @amyb12345, @mel-manohar, does this wording seem okay?

Reviewer: Completely agree Mark. I have added this in design-guidelines.md as well. "we strongly recommend that you follow these guidelines when building extensions. We will be reviewing and approving your Marketplace publication based on these requirements."

-  You can use our [MUI theme](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@docker/docker-mui-theme) to automatically replicate Docker Desktop's look & feel.
-  In future, we'll release utilities and components specifically targeting this combination (e.g. custom MUI components, or React hooks for interacting with Docker).

Read our [MUI best practices](mui-best-practices.md) guide to learn future-proof ways to use MUI with Docker Desktop.

### Dispreferred: Some other framework

You may prefer to use another framework, perhaps because you or your team are more familiar with it or because you have existing assets you want to reuse. This is possible, but highly discouraged. It means that:

-  You'll need to manually replicate the look and feel of Docker Desktop. This will take a lot of effort, and if you don't match our theme closely enough, users will find your extension jarring and we may ask you to make changes during a review process.
-  You'll have a higher maintenance burden. Whenever Docker Desktop's theme changes (which could happen in any release), you'll need to manually change your extension to match it.

> -  If your extension is open-source, eschewing common conventions will make it harder for the community to contribute to it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  If your extension is open-source, deliberately avoiding common conventions will make it harder for the community to contribute to it.
```

## 2. Follow the below recommendations

### Follow our MUI best practices (if applicable)

See our [MUI best practices](mui-best-practices.md) article.

### Only use colors from our palette

> With minor exceptions (e.g. displaying your logo), you should only use colors from our palette. These can be found in our [styleguide document](https://www.figma.com/file/U7pLWfEf6IQKUHLhdateBI/Docker-Design-Guidelines?node-id=1%3A28771), and will also soon be available in our MUI theme and via CSS variables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With minor exceptions, displaying your logo for example, you should only use colors from our palette. These can be found in our [style guide document](https://www.figma.com/file/U7pLWfEf6IQKUHLhdateBI/Docker-Design-Guidelines?node-id=1%3A28771), and will also soon be available in our MUI theme and via CSS variables.
```
